As disciple-makers, we are somewhat like a carpenter who has a toolbox, and inside
he has hand tools and he has power tools.
He likes the power tools because they save him a lot of time and energy.
He has a power drill that can penetrate hard wood, he has a power sander that can strip
away layers of built-up grime, he has a power nailer that can nail together pieces very
quickly.
Not likewise, we have a teaching toolbox, and inside we have many useful tools, but there's
no question the most powerful tool we have is God's Word.
Notice how the Apostle Paul described God's Word in Hebrews chapter 4 and verse 12.
For the Word of God is alive and exerts power and is sharper than any two-edged sword
and purses even to the dividing of soul and spirit and of joints from the marrow and
is able to discern thoughts and intentions of the heart.
So Paul says it's like a sword that can purge right to the heart.
Now is that important in our disciple-making work?
Yes, because we cannot read hearts, but when we use God's powerful Word, we begin to
discern whether the person is rightly disposed toward everlasting life, and we can perhaps
help that person, like using the carpenter power tools, why it can penetrate right to
the heart of a person.
It can strip away what's on the surface and help the person realize what he really is.
It can really nail down the points.
The Apostle Paul realized God's Word was dynamic.
That's why it's described that way.
It's dynamic because it comes from the living God, Jehovah.
You see, these words are not just words on a page, Jesus said, these are words from
the mouth of Jehovah.
A brother asked this question, if you were preaching from house to house with Jehovah
himself, would you do all the speaking, or would you allow him to talk?
Yes, when we open the Bible, we are allowing Jehovah to speak, and that is powerful.
The Apostle Paul went to the city of Thessalonica, and he found Gentiles worshipping lifeless idols.
But what happened?
Since Thessalonians 1.9, Paul wrote, these Gentiles had turned away from their lifeless
idols to serve the true and living God.
How did that happen?
In chapter 2 verse 13, Paul noted, they had received the Word of God, and that Word was
at work in those believers.
Paul rejoiced with those results.
And we too, one of our greatest joys, is to see how a new disciple allows God's Word
to work in him, and he makes big changes.
In the following dramatization, notice how Nida unleashes the power of God's Word.
Yo, so tell me.
Hi, again.
You're really quite stealthy.
Brilliant, right?
Perfect when I'm late for class, which is always right.
So last week, you spoke about promises, and I'm not about church, but I am about promises.
So?
Okay.
Well, if these are God's promises, wouldn't it make sense to go to His Word to find out
how to enjoy them?
Seems right.
Okay.
This is John 173.
Would you like to read it?
Um, out loud.
Really?
Then you know what it says.
I do, but it's nice to hear it again.
This means everlasting life.
They're coming to know you, the only true God, and the one who you sent of Jesus Christ.
So based on this, what means everlasting life?
Getting to know God, but how can you get to know something?
You're not even sure it exists.
Would you like to explore that answer next time you come by?
Who said anything about next time?
Oh, I'm just wondering if you work.
See you later.
Did you see how Nida unleashed the power of God's Word?
He asked a simple question that led to reading John 173.
And this is a simple, but powerful scripture.
Jesus was the most skillful disciple maker.
He basis teaching completely on God's Word.
And when it was possible, he actually read from the scriptures.
For example, you may remember the account in Luke chapter four.
And Jesus went back to his hometown of Nazareth.
He entered the synagogue and he read from the scroll of Isaiah.
This is the prophecy about the anointed one who would preach good news and God's acceptable
year.
But Jesus didn't stop at just reading the scripture.
He explained its meaning.
He said, today, this scripture that you just heard is fulfilled.
And those towns people could have understood that because he had left the town, left his
carpentry work months earlier and had begun his ministry.
Likewise, it's not enough for us just to read a scripture.
We must explain its meaning.
And Nida did that.
You remember after John 173 was read, she asked this question.
So based on this, what means everlasting life?
And the girl got it.
It means getting to know God.
What can we do, though, if our listener doesn't get it?
Well, we can just reread the keywords in that verse.
Also friends, we must be careful not to assume that people understand the terms we come
in the use.
For example, we often talk about the kingdom.
Well, to our listener, they may be thinking of heaven.
They may be thinking it's a condition of one's heart, not a government.
So we have to explain.
Also be patient as we use God's word.
Faith in God and appreciation for the scriptures take time to grow.
And Jesus illustrated this in Mark chapter 4, verse 26.
Let's just read that.
So he went on to say, in this way, the kingdom of God is just as when a man casts seeds
on the ground.
Yes, like a farmer, when we spread the kingdom message, we're casting seeds.
But do we expect those seeds to sprout overnight?
Jesus explains the growth process in verse 28.
On his own, the ground bears fruit gradually.
First the stalk, then the head, finally the full grain in the head.
So it's a gradual process.
The farmer waters and nurtures the seed, but he must wait.
Likewise, we need to be patient disciple makers.
It may take many return visits before we actually start a Bible study.
But on each return visit, let's try to help the person to progressively build faith in
God's word.
Here's an example of how we could help a person come to appreciate that the Bible has
practical, up to date advice.
And Sister does this.
She asks, what would you say is the key to getting along with people?
May I read a proverb from the Bible?
And she reads Proverbs 17-14, which says, beginning a fight is like opening a floodgate before
the quarrel breaks out, take your leave.
And then she asks, do you think that this advice could help us to get along with others?
A reasonable person would say yes.
How can we help a person build faith that the Bible is a book of reliable prophecy?
Well, on one return visit, we could briefly discuss the prophecy in Isaiah 13-20.
This says that the city of Babylon would never again be inhabited.
Well, 50 miles south of Baghdad, Iraq, are the runes of Babylon.
No one lives there and no one has for centuries.
How can we help someone build faith that there exists a creator?
Simply read Hebrews 3-4.
Every house is constructed by someone, but the one who constructed all things is God.
And then we could ask, is someone told you that the house you live in constructed itself?
Would you believe them?
Obviously not.
Neither could we really believe that this whole universe constructed itself.
So brothers and sisters, this is a powerful tool.
Let's unleash its power in our ministry.
We will become more effective disciple makers, and we will overflow with joy as we see that
word of God at work in a new believer.
Brother David's Plane, a member of the governing body, will now present the next part of this
symposium, experience the joy of disciple making, improve your skills, illustrating key
points.